hi my name is Jenny with house stuff in
my car works calm in today's video I
will explain how to adjust the valves on
a 22 our Toyota four-cylinder engine the
truck used in this video is a 1989
Toyota 4-wheel Drive equipped with the
fuel-injected 22 R engine before you
start working on your truck disconnect
the negative battery cable for safety
and make sure that the parking brake is
applied detach the PCV valve from the
valve cover as shown in the image and
both the brackets located on top of the
valve cover without disconnecting in the
end of the vacuum closes and flip it
over the intake plenum remove the four
nuts and washers that secure the valve
cover in place remove the four rubber
grommets and remove the valve cover
there are a few ways to adjust the box
one is to set the number one cylinder
and compression stroke and adjust both
intake and exhaust valves at the same
time considering that both valves are in
the closed position moving the cylinder
number two followed by three and four
another way to adjust all the intake
valves followed by adjusting all the
exhaust valves the way we did it as you
can see in the picture we made sure that
the opposite vowel is open in the
picture the intake valve is shown open
to be sure that the valves we are
adjusting which is the exhaust valves
showing the image is completely closed
after we adjusted the exhaust valve we
rotated the engine until the exhaust
valve was in the open position to adjust
the intake valve we did this on all four
cylinders to adjust each power loosen
the nut adjust the last with a flat
screwdriver
the picture with the correct gauge
inserted between the valve of the rocker
arm once the correct lash is set tighten
the nut Toyota recommends adjusting the
intake valves ten thousandths of an inch
and the exhaust valves to 12 thousandths
of an inch with a cold engine once
you're done adjusting all the valves
replace the old valve cover gasket with
the new one replace the front and rear
valve cover seals with new ones provided
with the valve cover gasket apply a
small coat of silicone to the edges of
the seals to make sure that there will
be no oil leaks install the valve cover
install the new rubber grommets install
the remaining components in the reverse
order they were removed make sure that
all the nuts and bolts are properly
tightened connect the negative battery
cable back on and start the engine if
you did everything correctly the truck
should run smoothly you may be able to
hear the valve train when the engine is
cold as the engine warms up the sound
should disappear thank you for watching
today's video make sure you subscribe to
our channel we upload new videos every
week and don't forget to visit our
online store we have great deals on the
tools auto accessories home improvement
products and so much more
see you next time